# Breast_Cancer_Detection
Breast Cancer Analysis using Genetic Information through Machine Learning Methodologies

**Abstract**

Breast cancer (BC) is one of the most common cancers among women in the world, representing the majority of new cancer cases and deaths related to cancer according to global statistics, causing it a severe public health concern in today’s society. For 2019, it was estimated earlier by the Canadian Cancer Statistics that 26,900 Canadian women will be diagnosed with breast cancer, and 5,000 will die of it [11]. Breast cancer accounts for approximately 25% of new cases of cancer and 13% of all cancer deaths in Canadian women. 1 in 8 women are expected to develop breast cancer during their lifetime, and 1 in 33 will die of it. While it can also be found in men, male breast cancer is an infrequent occurrence. Breast cancer starts in the cells of the mammary gland. Breast tissue covers a larger area than just the breast, extending up to the collarbone and from the armpit to the breastbone. A prediction of breast cancer in an initial stage provides a higher possibility of its cure. It needs a breast cancer prediction tool that can classify a breast tumor whether it is a malignant tumor or a benign tumor. Machine learning (ML) is widely recognised as a technique of choice in BC pattern classification and forecast modelling due to its unique advantages in critical feature detection from complex BC datasets. Classification and data mining methods are an effective way to classify data. This work aims to show the working of different machine learning algorithms and compare the results of their performance accuracy to present an effective method for the prediction of breast cancer.
Index Terms—Supervised Learning, Support Vector Machine, Na¨ıve Bayes, Feature selection, Breast Cancer Detection, XG-
Boost, Random Forest Classifier, Logistic Regression, Gradient Boost, SelectKBest
